The Infinite List of Characters



This is the first round of sketch writing exercises.  ( again, sorry for bothering the whole list with this, just let me know if you would rather not receive these ).

The goal for the next  week or two is on making characters who pop off the page, who have some real life to them, and who are distinct.  There is a huge difference between a sketch or play with characters who you care about and recognize, and one where there is some flat cardboard cutout of a man being dragged from plot point to plot point.

As actors and improvisors, we have a sense of how to make characters like that matter. We should make sure we are able to have distinct written characters as well.  

The goal for this week is to come up with a library of characters.  This is both to get some practice describing and creating characters, and also to build up a reference library of characters that we can draw from when writing more in depth scenes later.

The exercise is come up with an 'infinite' list of character descriptions that are about one or two sentences long.  ( For the purposes of this exercise, given that you probably don't have infinite time, I would estimate that 'infinite' is between 20-50 ).  

You might think about 
how this character looks like
where they are from
what do they do for a living
who their family is
what do they want in this very moment
what will they want a year from now
how do they act when they are caught in the rain
how do they move, which part of VAPAPO(voice-attitude-posture-animal-prop-obsession) do they come from
FORD ( family - occupation - recreation - dreams )
or any one of the other things we have learned from improv that makes characters distinct. 

Perhaps a brief description of someone I see on the subway might be a good source for this.

Indian man with horrible posture, wears orange plastic sunglasses.  He uses his left hand to scratch his right ear, because  his iPhone is melted into his right palm.

or

Gray hair, wire rim glasses, and a blue and white striped button down shirt.  He somehow keeps his dignity with him always, even though he is wearing socks in public, and one of his pants legs is rolled up to his knee.

Your target audience for this should be yourself, the rest of us sketch writers, and perhaps some close friends who you trust.  Imagine that you will show your list of characters to your target audience  and ask them, 'which of these characters excite you? which do you want to know more about? ' 

As far as submission goes, I am going to suggest that if you are comfortable and interested, that you post these online somewhere where the rest of us can find it ( like, for example, a google doc, or your website or whatever ), sometime around or before Wednesday, August 21st.  If you do that, then we can arrange for you the satisfying feeling of having other people read what you write, and give some sort of feedback.  We'll have to work out the details of submission and feedback process over the next several weeks, but this should work for now.

In the coming weeks, we'll learn more about who some of these these characters are, what sorts of things they want out of life, and what is preventing them from getting what they want.  We  might even find that some of them fit together in the same world. 

But don't worry about that for now.
